Document the ASDF release cycle and supported dependencies (#1323)
asdf-format/asdf: docs/asdf/release_and_support.rst

.. currentmodule:: asdf

.. _release_and_support:

*************************************************
Release Cycle and Major Dependency Support Policy
*************************************************

> This document describes the general plan for releases of the ASDF library, along
> with how long we intend to support each release. Moreover, it also describes our
> policy for how long we support versions of CPython and NumPy. Note that this is
> a living document, and may be updated at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes a general plan for releasing the ASDF library, along with 
how long we intend to support each release. Moreover, it also describes our policy 
for how long we plan to support versions of CPython and NumPy. Note that this is
a living document, and may be updated at any time.
```

.. _release_cycle:

Release Cycle
=============

> ASDF is and will continue to be developed on a rolling release cycle, as ASDF is
> still under active development. This means that ASDF will not have a fixed release
> schedule, but rather will be released as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As ASDF is still under active development, it will continue to be developed on a 
rolling release cycle.  This means that ASDF will not have a fixed release 
schedule, but rather will be released as needed.
```

However, we do intend to create and maintain designated "long-term support" (LTS)
branches for at least major version of ASDF in a similar way as what is described
for ``astropy`` in `APE 2 <https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs/blob/main/APE2.rst>`_.
This means that for every new major version of ASDF, say version ``a.0`` we will
designate and maintain ``a.0.x`` as the LTS branch of ASDF for at least one year.
During this time we will try to ensure that the LTS branch receives bugfixes and
has regular releases. After one year, we may decide to designate a new LTS branch
for ASDF if no new major versions of ASDF have been released; otherwise, we will
cease to maintain the old LTS branch in favor of the newer one(s). Aside from the
LTS version(s), we will also maintain a rolling current version of ASDF. This support
for these rolling versions will end when the next non-LTS version of ASDF is released.

.. note::

>     Since this policy has not yet been implemented, we do not yet formally declared
>     a LTS version for ASDF. Our plan is to declare ``2.15`` as an LTS version when it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Since this policy has not yet been implemented, we have not yet formally declared
    an LTS version for ASDF. Our plan is to declare ``2.15`` as an LTS version when it
```

    is released and move forward to actively working on ASDF ``3.0`` as our main development.
    Once ``3.0`` is released, it will also become a second LTS version of ASDF and we
    will continue to release bugfixes for ASDF ``2.15`` and ``3.0`` for at least one
    year past their release dates.

.. _dependency_support_policy:

Dependency Support Policy
=========================

ASDF primarily depends on CPython and NumPy. As a scientific Python library, we
have chosen to abide by the policy laid out in

> `NEP 29 <https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html>`_. In summary of
> ``NEP 29`` the following table summarizes this policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NEP 29 <https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html>`_. 
The following table summarizes this policy:
```

  On Apr 05, 2024 drop support for Python 3.9 (initially released on Oct 05, 2020)
  On Jun 22, 2024 drop support for NumPy 1.23 (initially released on Jun 22, 2022)
  On Dec 18, 2024 drop support for NumPy 1.24 (initially released on Dec 18, 2022)
  On Apr 04, 2025 drop support for Python 3.10 (initially released on Oct 04, 2021)
  On Apr 24, 2026 drop support for Python 3.11 (initially released on Oct 24, 2022)

.. _support_for_other_dependencies:

Support for Other Dependencies
------------------------------

ASDF also depends on several other Python packages. We currently do not have a
formal policy for how long we intend to support these dependencies. However, we
will try to support as many versions of these dependencies as possible.

In general, we will pin each of these dependencies from below with the oldest
version that we guarantee will work with ASDF. We will also try to test against
the latest version of each of these dependencies and release bugfixes to supported
versions of ASDF on an as-needed basis. We will try our best to announce when we
need to bump the support of these dependencies, and will always record doing so
(and why) in the changelog.

> If you find any issues with ASDF dependencies which effects a currently supported
> version of ASDF please open an issue on ASDF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you find any issues with ASDF dependencies which affect a currently-supported
version of ASDF, please open an issue in the ASDF repository.
```
